yeah
and we can do that to link up the sound
later actually before you hit record I
got a couple questions sure
um
I want to try in in snare our good
friend
um Lane Norton into a debate yes the two
of us yep yeah so I still want to do
that yeah
um also I'm I'm uh I've already paid for
all the film crew and everything for a
documentary film I'm going to be making
cool and I really want to fly to New
Zealand so we can like sit together nice
and uh yeah yeah I mean it's it's like
you don't want to do anything you know
for a film that's like a zoom you know
like I want to I want to have you know
the real live interview and uh the
film's gonna be called when the thing is
a wasted time
but it's I'd say about 40 of it is going
to cover nutrition because it's really a
story about how we've been misled by
people who just Market stuff
and you know I mean like
you know uh
Fitness manufacturers like selling lots
of different equipment yeah like if if
the idea of it you could do it with a
barbell and chains only
you know like you can't really have a
gym for that um so they gotta have 30
different pieces of equipment which
actually don't make biomechanical sense
but they're selling [__] so that's you
know that's what we're dealing with so
that's really the thrust in the
documentary the second thing and I'll
I'll bring these up because I I want
your opinion on it in in in the
interview
but I just want you to roll this around
in your head
uh before you answer uh you probably saw
the paper from last year that talks
about how calories are a terrible
measurement yeah
uh obviously we all know that like
anyone is carnivores like I don't even I
don't even know why I started counting
calories it doesn't make any sense yeah
but what the paper is
trying to determine is
the calorie measurement has a lot of
failed weight loss stories connected to
it but the office of the paper believe
that looking at the actual mass of food
the weight of food
is a much better indicator and will help
people lose weight now
they made no mention of the fact that
you would discount fiber because it's
indigestible and you say the first clue
uh and then and then the other thing is
um you'd have to take some into account
some of the thermogenic effects
of
animal protein and I don't know if we
know enough to measure and the reason
I'm asking the question is
I think together we could come up with a
an equation that we keep proprietary and
we can actually get a patent on sure to
run an app
and our app would actually be more
predictive
of of weight loss that lost
than anything else out there and will
own the intellectual property yeah like
that could be worth a lot of [__]
money sure
you you into that idea yeah and
such equations exist
already they have been published in the
peer-reviewed literature but nobody's
going to read them
that people just because they're not
publicized well partially they're not
publicized as being in the public
interest they're kind of for a niche
audience academics
secondly even academics when you pick up
a paper that's got sums and equations in
it most people go oh God the eyes glaze
over and you just go and then you go to
the conclusion section and go okay what
does that say oh yeah cool
I'm in contact with the bloke that wrote
the paper
so yeah we can we can talk awesome I
felt like I knew you had that yeah
it's just like like Bart's probably like
way ahead of me on this one
yeah
[Music]
we can still write software exactly and
he won't be thinking about that because
he's an academic
yeah his idea is not to make money his
idea is to publish articles so that he
gets continued so that he gets paid a
mid-range
if you're lucky a mid-range five figure
salary to do that
yeah yeah anyway cool
okay let's get going okay three two one
all yours
so uh Bart thanks for joining me this is
fantastic uh other than just seeing your
great haircut uh it's nice to see your
smiling face and be talking to you and
uh we've exchanged a bunch of messages
before and uh spoken a little bit and
I really my first question let's talk
about
um let's talk about
stem cells and let's talk about what
what we can do to manage age through the
product that Cyril offers which I'm a
new fan of and I write the research of
and I think it's fantastic I think
anyone
I don't know what age to recommend
people should start this at but you've
been taking it 30 years
uh so tell me tell me all the things
you've learned
right John thank you for having me thank
you for inviting me for the discussion
before we get rolling it's an absolute
privilege it's a pleasure and I've been
looking forward to this for quite a
number of weeks we were actually going
to do this a week or so ago two weeks
ago yeah and then my internet decided to
pack up so I I went ahead and got the
starlink situation sorted out because I
live in in a very rural part of a very
beautiful part of New Zealand we're on
copper cable here it's not reliable so
we got the we got Jesse mcclat face
sorted out so now we can do interwebs
and it's a great thing anyway that's an
aside
stem cells right
we are not talking embryonic stem cells
here we're not talking anything
subversive or anything like that
what we're talking about is a population
of what's called adult stem cells
these the particular ones we're talking
about are called cd34 plus that's their
label if you like they exist in your
bone marrow you are born with a certain
number of them in your bone marrow
and you will die with the same number of
these stem cells in your bone marrow
unless at some point in your life you
are exposed to a massive dose of
radiation
which would kill off that stem cell
population
failing that you will die with the same
number you were born with
what do they do
when your body receives a chemical
signal whether that signal is created by
the body itself or whether it's
introduced to the body
by the way of for example Cyril products
that chemical signal tells your bone
marrow it's time to dump off
a batch of adult stem cells into your
bloodstream
how does that happen the stem cells in
your bone marrow
are permanently affixed there that's why
you die with the same number you're born
with but in releasing the stem cells the
the mother cells that are bound to the
bone marrow divide into two
and the daughter cell is released into
the bloodstream
now what do they do they tool around in
the blood these adult stem cells and
they for one of the better term they are
looking for tissues in your body that
are worn
tired dysfunctional broken down diseased
not what they should be for any reason
when they find these tissues they bind
dissolve the old cell and differentiate
into an adult cell line of the kind
required by the new tissue
a presto brand new tissue
brilliant
incredible
so they specifically seek out
the cells that are sort of worsed off
your your body has priorities it decides
which of your tissues needs repairing
before others
right for example if you've got heart
disease
and
some other less important thing in your
body the chemical signal from the heart
disease tissue is going to be stronger
it's going to attract those stem cells
much more powerfully than whatever the
secondary thing is so the secondary
thing will have to wait
okay
but that right there for most people if
you can grasp that okay you've got a
population of blank
cells that can be any kind of cell in
your body they've got your DNA in them
and they can be released into the blood
they can find tissues that need
repairing or replacing and that's what
they do for most people that is enough
they will go to the link which is
currently on the screen under John's
beautiful image and they will go and buy
this product
because that's enough for most people
some people need more than that and and
we can get to that during this
discussion of course because there are
so many more reasons why
this product from this company is
on The Cutting Edge it's the most
phenomenal thing I've I've ever come
into contact with in in my life
personally and as John rightly said I've
I've personally been taking this product
on a daily basis for 13 years
I first talk at
um
when I was
diagnosed by the best eye specialist in
New Zealand where I live
and I was referred to this eye
specialist by an optometrist who was
concerned about the health of my eyes
and so I waited out the time that you
have to wait to see a specialist and I
went and saw The Specialist
and he looked into my eyes and took some
photos and did some scans and said yes
the optometrist is quite right
he said you have the most advanced case
of wet macular degeneration I have ever
seen in a manual age at that time that's
awesome I know at the time I was 39
years of age at that time and
what the specialist said to me is you'll
love this John he said right number one
don't smoke I said done
number two don't drink I said um okay
number three avoid all that red meat and
saturated fat of course make sure you
get your balanced diet and healthy
grains you said to me I said I could
find whatever
I'm not gonna have that argument today
yeah
um don't let Blue Light get into your
eyes you said
wasn't strictly correct either but
that's for another day
he said if you do all of those things
you'll slow this process down perhaps
you might get a few more years of vision
but
I'm gonna suggest to you you need to get
yourself ready for legal blindness and
that will probably be within five to
seven years
he said
nothing we can do if you like we can
inject some stem cells directly into
your eyeballs I said thanks
I don't think I want you sticking
needles into my eyeballs
um yeah going blind sounds better well I
don't know but that was terrifying you
know now I you know I asked some
Christians what do you mean blind and he
said well you'll be able to see light
you'll be able to see movement
but you'll have no Focus
you'll have no ability to resolve
anything you won't be able to read you
won't be able to drive
any of those kind of things and
eventually
there will be black holes that will
develop in the middle of your blurry
light vision and that will go too
then probably 15 years anyway that was
13 years ago
13 and a half years ago
my eyesight division is fine my eyesight
is not only fine it's better than it was
my prescription for my corrective lenses
which I wear all the time is less than
it was 13 years ago
um
I am able to see clearly
with corrective lenses both close work
and at distance
the black holes that we're developing in
the middle of my vision have completely
regressed
about a year ago when I had my last
visit to an optometrist I went to a new
optometrist I have not seen before they
did not have my records and I said
nothing I sat down I let them take the
photos do the glaucoma test test for my
prescriptions
the optometrist said there you go
there's your prescription come back and
see us in two weeks to collect your
spectacles
thanks very much
no evidence of wetness I said I said to
this optometrist because she was you
know completely didn't say anything and
I said to her well
was there anything that would concern
you about the health of my eyes and she
said no they look pretty good for a man
in his mid-30s and I said well thank you
very much I'm I'm 50. I wish I was at
the time
um very nice of you to say so
um no evidence of any kind of disease
process at all she said no look here's
the photos of the back of your eyes they
look pretty good you know good
vascularization good pink tissue
I've seen the photos of how my eyes were
and these the disease was clear have you
ever seen an old film from an old
projector that's frozen up in the
projector and it's got the heat and it's
bubbled and and yeah that's what the
back of my eyes looked like what macular
degeneration
it's actually totally random like I
educated myself on that because that's
when I used to be one of the owners of
power play
um yeah and you have those in New
Zealand and
and uh I was Chief science officer of
the company and uh that's the only thing
that's contraindicated
because it can you know vibration can
make that progress and that dysfunction
a lot more aggressive yeah
yeah so anyway regressed and that was
impossible there was nothing they could
do I was going to go blind suck it up
200 bucks thanks is what the specialist
said
for a 15-minute consultation if you
please wow anywho
um
long story short I'm not claiming
causality because the FDA won't allow it
however sure what also people need to
understand is that I started taking
surreal products
before I discovered the carnivore diet
there was no crossover by the time I
started the carnival diet my eyesight
problem was basically resolved Anyway by
then
yeah so the only thing I changed was
taking this because now it's an isolated
the variable yeah
yeah
so the original question though John you
asked about was aging
now macular degeneration is a disease of
Aging so they say it's actually a
disease of chronic systemic inflammation
poor lifestyle
there is some genetic play into it as
well of course
um
but Aging in general one of the not the
only reason we age but one of the
reasons we age
is because every time a cell line in
your body in an organ or a tissue
divides into two
I don't know if you've heard of them you
I know you have John but some of your
audience may not have heard of them
there's these little things on the end
of every chromosome
and their several thousand base pairs
long they're called telomeres and they
are like I think the plastic they get
shorter yeah they're like the plastic
thing around the end of a shoelace that
stops the shoelace from fraying now
every time a cell divides that telomere
gets shorter and shorter and shorter and
shorter when it gets to a certain
critical short length that's a message
for that cell that it should stop
dividing now
and then that Soul Aid that Soul line
will age
and it will die off and it will not be
replaced unless an adult stem cell comes
along to replace that self
which by the way when an adult stem cell
binds to a tissue and differentiates
into a new heart cell
um
toenail cell skin cell
immune cell blood cell not hair follicle
cells apparently
it's not that's not a health issue it's
not a priority so that's why besides
borders sexy isn't it John borders 60.
anyway
brand new tissue which is just
differentiated by a bio stem cell into a
new cell that new cell has full length
telomeres
now I'm not saying this product is a
fountain of youth again because the FDA
won't allow me to say that but if you
understood what I just said
join the dots up for yourself
yeah incredible
absolutely incredible
while we're at it just for fun before an
adult stem cell differentiates into a
new tissue with a falling Nutella here
they exude these things called exosomes
which I'm sure you've heard of due to
recent world events
the exercise are not just the things
that Viral particles are encapsulated in
inside a living organism
they are packages that can contain
anything
and exosomes are exuded by adult stem
cells and in the exosomes exerted by
stem cells you will find
RNA DNA
sometimes wholly formed proteins that
are needed for various signaling issues
in the body and they're like care
packages they're being exuded tens of
thousands of these things every hour
while a stem cell is circulating before
it Finds Its eventual job
an adult stem cell can send a
self-destruct message
to cancerous tissues
a consumed a calm down and inflammatory
process signal to an inflamed tissue
these things are incredible
so why why do we need cereal then if our
body has these things well here's the
answer
you know how I said you'll die with the
same number you were born with
yes
okay so what happens as you age is your
ability to release the stem cells from
your bone marrow to your blood drops as
a function of your biological age
right such that by the time you're 50
years of age you're
your ability to release the stem cells
on a daily basis will be about 50 of
what it was at your Peak which was about
18.
by the time you're 75 you've got 25 left
and by the time you're 100 well you're
on borrowed time
but with stem enhanced ultimately we're
gonna we're gonna turn that clock back
and we're going to reinvigorate your
ability to release these cells
which will bind to tissues that are worn
diseased or dysfunctional and replace
them
with brand new cells with a biological
age of zero because they have full
length telomeres
credible product and incredible cutting
issues this is it it's a shame that the
direction of medicine is more like this
like let's look at the root cause of
most diseases and you know instead of
treating symptoms
take like 10 steps back and go
why why is the dysfunction manifesting
yeah yeah and this this should be like
basic Healthcare but uh you know
Healthcare is not really health care
it's just easier everybody in the world
you gotta get sick first before a doctor
will even see you yeah anybody in the
world everybody in the world needs to
know about this product and needs to be
on it yesterday
if you are over 18 years of age
in any state of health at all
you need this product
if you're under 18 years of age and have
any health problem at all you need this
product basically
now that's why I'm so pleased that
you're on board with us John because
your audience obviously is much larger
than mine
and I'm just so pleased that so many
more people are going to hear this story
now
make my audience more as we move forward
in time I hope so my audience is also
pretty smart
yeah like you know they've they've
completely broken with convention and
agreed yeah weightlifting is a waste of
time and there's a better approach and
most people just believe what they've
been told I think Elon Musk recently
said uh it's easy to fool someone it's
really hard to convince someone that
they've been fooled
now of course it's because you got to
admit you were wrong and only an
intelligent man can admire a woman can
admit that they were wrong so I I
thought I was wrong once John but I was
mistaken about that
yeah
I think it's just it's just like
you got it like every every X3 user
everyone that uses Ford again like they
had they had to actually look at the
market and say yeah you know what
John's right like Fitness is a
is an industry with a 99.9 failure rate
basically everyone who almost everyone
who goes and engages in standard
exercise they don't get taxed [__] and
and you know you got to be smart enough
to admit that because the people who are
doing it
they have to be smart enough to say that
what they're doing is wrong
and it's just it's it's hard to find
those people but one and I have I I
and uh I think they're gonna really
benefit
from stem enhance
yeah yeah
before we move off The Surreal top and
get on to other things
um folks also need to know that there
are a range of
synergistic products that I suggest
people take on a daily basis as well as
the stem enhance
they are an anti-inflammatory which is
called Psy active
which works on both the Cox 2 and the
locks five inflammatory Pathways the two
most common ones that are activated
chronically in humans because of our
lifestyle tones them down basically
knocks them back gives you an
anti-inflammatory effect without the
side effects that you will get from
pharmacological anti-inflammatories
so I'd get onto that on a daily basis as
well really important
we have a blood flow Optimizer which is
an enzyme preparation which dissolves
fibrin deposits from your capillaries
thus allowing the stem cells to get to
where they need to go because if you're
going to invest in the release of the
stem cells
probably best to also invest in making
sure they can get there
on top of that we have
what we genuinely believe to be the
world's leading Cutting Edge collagen
peptide supplement as well
and that's actually the biggest seller I
can't believe that that one outsells
stem enhance
um but it does at this stage so yeah
there you go
well if people are more concerned with
their vanity perhaps yeah
we couldn't do this at the end of last
week was they had a TED Talk in
Cleveland and I said uh I said I I talk
about
Fitness and body composition and
everything having to do with people's
vanity
and what I'm really doing is tricking
them into being healthy
because people are much more willing to
invest their time learning and their
money on what's going to make them
prettier it's like well don't you care
about how you age and most people say
yes but
I don't want to spend any money on that
so yeah I mean there's there's that and
I I think it's funny but
hey I mean as we age
um there's aging gracefully like I don't
know I'm 46 I don't try to not be 46.
but you know I do have to keep up with
my
22 year old wife
so now of course
I was a little over prepared and like I
said my in my last video I I tagged you
in yeah she can't keep up with me but I
want to keep it that way
uh I want to make sure that I am
mentally as strong as possible
physically as strong as possible
um and I'm I'm managing
you know the cell breakdown that's
happening naturally inside my body
and triggering the most replenishment
of of all those things and and every
product that I read about and you you
got me on a call with uh Andy the the
CEO of Cyril
um
what a nice guy yeah like uh yeah I'm so
excited about the company
and I'd come across the real products
over time but
I usually look for the research link
because I want to know what the
mechanisms are and sometimes those are
kind of hard to find uh so I hadn't ever
seen a body of literature connected with
anyone any one of them until you sent me
the uh the stem enhanced Ultra and
you know like it's it's pretty
spectacular I think also like
anyone who's looked at
Physical Medicine research is going to
have a more
a more reasonable standard
for like a burden of proof
because
when we look at Physical Medicine
research you have studies all over the
place that have like 15 20 subjects
maybe 20 controls also
whereas I I think it's interesting what
a lot of pharmaceutical companies have
done they have studies with tens of
thousands of people and it's like okay
great
you should have larger studies
considering you're creating chemicals
that are not found in nature and could
potentially kill people
um
however
a lot of people get lost on that detail
and they see the sample size of a study
and they're like oh there's only 50
people in this study so we don't really
know and it's like my [__] ass we
don't really know we know like how about
the fact that this same study was
replicated somewhere else and came up
with the same result you know with
unrelated people no conflicts of
interest like it it's it's tough for a
lot of people to
understand what's good also a lot of
Physicians don't understand
statistical significance like I don't
know how they missed that class but I I
would say three out of five positions
don't have a clue what that means yeah
and you know really it means 95 of the
time we're pretty sure this works
and yeah I don't know why it just you
know nobody told them that but
it's like well you can't you can't have
statistical significance or 20 test
subjects and I'm like actually it's
harder to show statistical significance
with a smaller sample size than it is
with a larger sample size
and they look at me like
really
you take statistics
I don't think you did yeah and yeah it's
it's sad but when I when I saw what what
you were pointing me at it kind of blew
my mind like wow like this is the this
is the product that everyone's already
looking for yeah
now you know again let's let's not say
it's it's the Fountain of Youth because
again the FDA won't allow that but
I am 51 years of age
yeah see I thought you were younger than
me when I first found you when I first
founded your videos I I just figured you
were you know like you before before
tenure you were like
[__] this place I'm out of here
and uh no so you spent a long time doing
research in University yep
yeah yeah I was an academic for 26 years
John
yeah
incredible torture yeah
it's a slow learning curve for me
obviously
whatever
well it's it's I think you slowly get
exposed to sort of the machine that is
conflict of interest
like the reason and in in a way it's
unavoidable because how do we learn
about most things we learn about most
things because somebody's selling
something
like how do we know about digital
Communications well Apple's done a hell
of a job and so is Microsoft and so
there's a bunch of other companies uh
building better products for electronic
communication
but we learned about it because of
marketing
and that's not necessarily a bad thing
it's just the way things are and it's
like
but that model of learning
is is also highly flawed because like
for example there's really no reason to
consume fiber
but there's a lot of companies that make
money selling people fiber yeah so but
there's no money in telling people you
don't need it
so people attack guys like us and we're
like yeah you don't really need to worry
about Fiverr and it's like Oh no you're
gonna have colon cancer for sure
really have you you know here's here's
10 studies that show you don't need
fiber
and you know like you can post 10
studies that represent
you know the hard work of maybe 50
individuals at different universities
didn't communicate with each other ever
know each other
uh uh you know the Collective hours of
some of the most intelligent people
maybe 10 000 hours depending on how big
the body of literature is and then the
typical internet commenter looks at that
and just goes [__]
I'm amazed every day John I'm amazed at
how many people know more about [__]
than I do
stuff that I have studied as an academic
and researched and published articles as
a research scientist on for 26 years
and it's mostly it's young Millennial
boys
that know more than I do about this
stuff by the way and it's it's because
they were I think it's because they were
brought up in a generation where every
child wins a prize
your opinion is valid too and however
you might identify as what you are so if
you identify you find a guy that came up
with the term Your Truth yeah your truth
good it's not true that's it there is
not your truth whoever said your truth
that guy should have his dick cut off
like what the [__] it's just like
everybody can just lie to themselves
about whatever
reality they want to live in I mean
clearly people are identifying as like
flamingos
that suggestion that you just made John
I would suggest the person that came up
with the Your Truth has probably already
organized that for shim self
yes you're probably right who knows Kim
I like that that covers everything
it's the it's the ultimate pronoun
um
[Music]
yeah I I don't I don't know I know that
like like the
people who have the most say on the
internet you know like according to
Dunning Dunning Kruger effect you know
they're they're actually the dumbest
people so the smartest people actually
just keep your mouth shut because
they're going to learn like you don't
learn by speaking you learn by listening
or reading it's calories and calories
out in it John just thermodynamics in it
it's thermodynamics yeah it's
thermodynamics or uh as you said the law
of the love conservations
um the way you on Mark Bell's uh Power
project
podcasts like
unfortunately I I think you win over
their heads on a couple of things
uh
they're the smarter ones in bodybuilding
yeah and fitness yeah like they try to
consider the science but you threw them
stuck a curveball that they're like
calories don't mean
what I thought they meant yeah I don't
know what to do with that information
now I'm just going to keep counting
calories for a little bit of background
there John
when Mark approached me to be on his
podcast to have that discussion
yeah he thought that was going to be a
completely different discussion to the
one he got
because his introduction to me was a
certain ifbb Pro with a certain
testicular challenge
and a certain drug abuse problem history
suggesting on his videos that who who am
I I'm some kind of loon and how could I
possibly be ignoring the laws of
thermodynamics isn't it
and stuff and so Mark said uh obviously
thought to himself let's get this guy on
and make a fool of him probably
and then I went on there and it was like
bam mic drop and they were like
yeah
it actually looked like that in the
video it's funny like their jaws dropped
open like what do you mean counting
calories doesn't make sense like and you
know uh even
um
I forgot the other guy's name me too
yeah I can never remember it guys yeah
he's awesome yeah you know he really
like you know he was like 90 agreeing
because he's like yeah when you get
really lean
you need to make your deficit completely
huge to get the last couple pounds off
yeah and it doesn't mathematically work
out and it's like yeah because you're
not an ice cube
yeah if you were an ice cube it would
make perfect [__] sense but you're an
organism with hormones and then there
might be other hormones
had and all there's a whole bunch of
[__] going on so it's not just as simple
and I I think the the millennial
generation started this it it like they
want to digest information the way they
want to digest it
and they kind of got their way because
they have the internet they can choose
however they absorb information they can
watch the bias news site or a non-biased
news site if there is such a thing
and that's just how they choose to roll
but unfortunately
they choose to get their health
and fitness information from memes not
even a [__] sentence
just an image about that big that's got
a funny picture and it says calories and
calories out some other stupid [__] yeah
that's like easily disproven and I I use
this expression all the time I didn't
make it up I don't know where I heard it
but I say it like every day
oversimplification is another word for
wrong
and these guys like they they want it to
be simple and I tell them like do you
really want to understand how this works
because if you do
you could conquer you can make your
physique into what it like exactly what
you want it to be you can be as lean
as you want to be or if you if you love
carbohydrates
you know you can minimize your
carbohydrates and just be less fat
like you could do that too but choosing
ignorance
is is a very special thing with the
younger Generations it I mean and I I
think it completely dovetails into
politics also because it's
um it's it's an achieved ignorance is
what we're seeing is people are behaving
in a way voting in a way supporting
ideas in a way where it's like you know
like we're we're on the verge of
economic collapse of you know what was
four years ago was the most powerful
nation in the world but we are like
borderline ready to set ourselves on
fire over pronouns
like
all of a sudden I kind of wish we did
have a dictatorship because it terrifies
me how these people are going to vote
no it's just dumb does it doesn't matter
which way they vote because it didn't
the last time around
[Music]
yeah
yeah so it is it is crazy but yeah I
mean this this um
this falsehoods of Fitness uh sort of
show that I say I do every month but
really it's whenever I feel like it
which is really never uh
um I it was whenever I come across like
just an asinine idea in Fitness like
calories in calories out and I haven't
done that one well uh but it's it's just
there's a staggering amount of
information
that indicates that this is just the
poor way of looking at things and uh I
don't know why people hang on to it so
tightly especially because it's not
[__] working
like we've been saying eat less and move
more for 75 years
and
the Western population is better and
sicker than ever
so clearly
that's not what to do
maybe we should change what we're eating
and I just you know just saying that
like gets you hate on on the internet
and well why what and I I think I talked
to you know Tony Robbins is partnered
with me in my medical device
uh Venture with um with osteostrum
and uh
do you have an Osteo strong location in
New Zealand I don't know John I don't
know I don't think you do yeah yeah
because the way it works the franchise
sales like
we we sell the franchise rights to a
whole nation so like there's a couple in
Australia
uh uh but I don't I don't think New
Zealand because you you want someone on
the ground in New Zealand who knows the
market
who knows different cities who knows
mayors of cities that can
more easily get to the Target population
of post-menopausal females and um
you know it's like
back to what I said about marketing like
we learn about stuff because of
marketing
um
but it's it's just so tough when what
you'd like to Market doesn't have a
revenue model behind it
you know we're just telling people like
stop with your calorie counting
like there's a better way you can you
need to change what you eat and you know
it's like the end of the [__] world
for some of these people and then you
try and give them better information and
then the response is [__] you
okay like I said achieved ignorance yeah
millennium
and I've also noticed
that it's probably because of the two of
us and maybe one or two others
there's this
bristling of a lot of Fitness
professionals like they don't want to
say anything wrong
but they want to keep doing what they're
doing and so they're
preemptive movement is saying everybody
else other than me is a liar
yeah well Hillary Clinton did that too
how well did that go for her it's like
she's the one lying and she's saying
everybody other than being alive
and that's kind of the move I I see
from
some of these guys and I also believe
that some of these guys who are making
false statements they don't even know
they're making false statements because
they're just repeating it from somebody
yeah
uh like they're just like like Thomas
the Lauer I don't think he's ever
intentionally misled anyone no I think
even the suggestion probably like upsets
him not because he's worried about his
reputation because he really wants to
give people the best advice
he just
it's kind of like every study that comes
out he Bears the mark of the last truck
that hit him yeah well I mean Thomas is
a great bloke I have a lot of time for
Thomas I like Thomas personally a great
deal now I've ragged on Thomas in my
videos a couple of times but three or
four times
every time Thomas that I do that he
sends me an email and says I really
enjoyed your video I got some laughs
thanks very much
um and you know
what you're saying it has some Merit has
some value out you know I'm learning
from what you're saying so it's not you
know he's he doesn't have an ego like a
lot of people do
um and he is
what's right now who's right yeah unlike
other characters who we won't name but
the name might rhyme with name who knows
um who are with malice a full thought I
think actively saying the wrong thing to
people knowing full well that it's wrong
like the boy actually made a video
where he said that calories and calories
out of course is valid it absolutely is
it's just thermodynamics you say isn't
anyone that doesn't understand
thermodynamics doesn't understand
science he says and then he said the
first law of thermodynamics says that
mass can't be created nor destroyed it
can only be changed and formed
which is not a law of thermodynamics
which is neither a law or thermodynamics
neither is it correct because it is
because if Mass can be created or
destroyed how do you explain
Hiroshima Japan the morning of the 6th
of August 1945.
exactly yeah
any radiation you know and there's
radiation everywhere yeah
yeah so it's like that's like another
thing it's like well you know how many
flights do you take a year
because that is a hell of a lot to do
with how much radiation is being exposed
to people yeah exactly or how many but
have that this this was a curveball to
me somebody's like well how many bananas
do you eat and I'm like none
and I'm like
do bananas contain radiation
the guy kind of looked at me because I I
didn't know they do
well
well that's terrible
but yeah I mean I don't think people you
know they're not not aware of that um
but yeah absolutely like any any sort of
nuclear process is going to completely
defeat that theory
[Music]
um
one other thing so the I I send you an
email is it okay if I change something
yeah please yeah yeah because we'll
we'll beat up on the clowns in the
fitness industry
I mean we'll we'll probably do a whole
bunch of these and they're all the good
news is they're always making fools of
themselves
always something to talk about yeah I
think it's funny when when people who
mislead people are fighting with each
other
that's my favorite you know it's just
like who's lying harder today
uh yeah but
you know
I asked you that question which I don't
think the answer is in literature uh so
the question I asked was
do we stimulate muscle growth
under very specific circumstances
sort of in a very acute manner
or is it
like a trend like if
you know maybe three out of five
workouts you're stimulating growth you
just keep growing
um the reason I asked that question is
I'm theorizing it actually may be event
specific
because there was some
um very very fine uh Radiology analysis
done on bone
I want to say maybe 10 years ago and
this study was like
at extension time I had to look up like
I don't know 50 different terms because
I don't know Radiology very well uh or
at least I you know I I thought I did
from a you know dexa standpoint from
bone density but this went Way Beyond
and it determines that only one loading
cycle into a bone
is what is the determining factor of if
growth is triggered or not yeah single
loading cycle so for example the hip
joint the minimum dose response to grow
bone in the hip is 4.2 multiples of body
weight very high lows and most people in
an exercise
uh you know model would never achieve
that yes part of the reason I developed
the Osteo strong devices because that's
that's what they do yeah but
looking at
what they came up with it was one
loading cycle triggers the growth
primary mineralization happens between
five and seven days yeah
secondary mineralization which is
basically you know a little more
um that happens over the next 20 days
and then nothing and it's like
it's very event specific yeah and I
figure you know I I would say growing a
callus you know you have one hard
abrasion on the hand yes and you can
begin to develop a callus
um
so I'm I'm thinking
there's some way to determine
if you have the proper stimulus in the
in the proper nutrition that are timed
you know in the same day yes it's pretty
clear it doesn't matter when when the
nutrients come yes and the stimulus as
long as it's like in the same day yeah
that protein synthesis happens
but
what about the days you have a shitty
workout yeah and I'm starting to think
that you know if you wake up and you
know you're not feeling great you had a
lot of sleep or
you know your air conditioning was
broken so you you're just you're tossing
and turning all night long
um
I'm starting to think we should tell
people just skip the workout because if
you have a shitty workout you're not
going to stimulate anything yeah but you
will make inroads in your recovery
ability so it's better if you cannot and
then do it the next day yep and then
also because of what what I learned
about bone
and I'll send you this study you will
probably fall out of your chair laughing
at how complicated they made this but it
was because of the level of radiology
and the fact that I just have no
background in that and it was just like
like seriously I feel like you guys
tried to make this as complicated as
possible but
the secondary mineralization I wonder if
there's maybe some kind of lingering
effect with different growth factors
maybe we haven't discovered yet
that are going to be able to be measured
like right now via muscle biopsy we know
that you stimulate growth and then you
have
36 hours uh you know for for protein
synthesis to happen and it may be
confined in 36 hours uh I mean the
metabolic rate of muscle is much faster
than the metabolic rate of bone but like
I I I'd like to know more and I just
don't think it's literature I would too
there is there is definitely a hole in
the literature in that regard I think
I am on board with the specificity of
Fitness as regards activity uh Ergo
appropriate management of training load
training frequency
total training volume are you three
main training based variables and we
need to we do need to get that right
I've always come from the school myself
of minimum effective exposure to
exercise
absolutely personally but beyond that I
think it's a discussion for another day
I think you're quite right there I will
need to race off John unfortunately I've
got the bookend situation today with
interviews Etc I'm vastly uh sought
after you know not as much as yourself
of course but uh yeah I don't know
it is I I don't sit around and wait for
the phone to ring you're right
neither do I I usually turn the phone
off actually no not talking to you today
right as much as I can if I listen it's
been an absolute pleasure it's been a
privilege
um to to lock horns with you button and
to find out where you're coming from and
to share a bit with you about
stem cells that's a raw product and a
few other things look people seriously
you know if you go and buy some real
products will not change our lives
individually we'll earn a few dollars
commission from you doing that but I'll
tell you what very very likely will
change your life completely get on those
products get on them yesterday the link
yeah to do so is on the screen right now
all you need to do is click that and you
can do any research you like there the
information is all there on the website
more than happy to answer any questions
if you still have them after that but
that's where you go that's that's how
you get it
get yourselves involved and if you're
also interested in earning money more
than you're interested in spending it
we've got a program for that too just
let us know and we'll tell you about it
or maybe we will if you qualify but in
the meantime we'll leave you with that
until next time and um yeah maybe next
time I can borrow it yeah maybe if
someone can take the gloves off and be a
bit more relaxed about things and we'll
share a few more things a bit more
openly than I would do during such an
initial discussion perhaps
see you then perfect ciao